So now that we have an idea
of why we might want to use custom actions,
it's important to understand
that there are different types of custom actions
you can build.
To be precise,
there are three main types of custom actions
you can build:
JavaScript Actions,
Docker Actions,
and Composite Actions.
Now, these are the three approaches you can use
for building actions,
and we will use all three approaches in this course section
so that you see and learn
how these three approaches work,
but the result will always be the same.
So the result will always be an action that you use
like you're using these public actions,
but when it comes to building custom actions,
that's where you have some choices
between these three approaches I mentioned.
Now, JavaScript actions are simply actions
where you write the logic of the action in JavaScript,
so you define JavaScript code in a JavaScript file
and that file will be executed whenever your action runs.
That's the idea here.
And in this action code, you can use JavaScript,
to be precise, the NodeJS runtime with all its features
and any packages of your choice
to write any JavaScript application in the end
that should be executed whenever your action runs.
And it's there for a pretty straightforward way
of writing a custom action
as you will see in this course section
at least if you know JavaScript.
And that of course is an important prerequisite.
Therefore, if you don't know JavaScript,
then this is not a great approach
because you must write your code with JavaScript
if you choose this action type.
Now an alternative to building your action
as a JavaScript action
would be to build a Docker action.
And this makes a lot of sense if you,
for example, don't know JavaScript
but another programming language.
A Docker action is basically a containerized action,
so an application that you put into a container
just as you could put jobs or services
into containers earlier,
and you build such a Docker action by defining a Dockerfile
which simply configures
how the image for this action container
will be built and configured
and then that Dockerfile will be used by GitHub
to build a container based on the image
defined by your Dockerfile
and you can then perform any task of your choice
with any programming language of your choice
in that container
since it is your container.
You can use any base image,
set up any environment you want,
and therefore, of course, also create any environment
for any programming language you want to use.
Therefore, you have lots of flexibility
but basic Docker knowledge is definitely required
in order to get started with this approach.
Nonetheless, we are of course
also going to explore that approach in this course section.
Now, the last kind of action you can build
is a composite action
or are composite actions.
And the idea behind composite actions
is that you don't write any code
with any programming language
but instead you combine multiple Workflow steps
as you could have written them directly
in the Workflow file itself as well
in one single action.
So you combine multiple run or uses commands or actions
in a single composite action
and that composite action can then be used in a Workflow.
And therefore, composite actions are great for grouping
and combining multiple steps
that might be reused across jobs or workflows.
And the great thing about composite actions
is that no extra knowledge or skillset is needed
because you won't write any code
in any programming language.
Instead, you're just going to define some steps
as you already did it throughout this course.
So these are the three kinds of actions you can create
and these are the three kind of actions
we're going to take a closer look at
throughout this course section here.